# Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) detection in Chest X-Ray images using majority voting based classifier

## ABSTRACT
One of the most challenging problems in the present world is the novel coronavirus disease (nCOVID-19). Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-COV-2) is the causal agent of this disease leading to high morbidity and mortality worldwide. A recent study reveals that infected patients exhibit distinct radiographic visual characteristics coupled with fever, dry cough, fatigue, etc. A chest radiograph or a Chest X-Ray (CXR) is one of the clinical adjuncts that plays a vital role in the detection of the visual response associated with SARS-COV-2 infection. In this study, we use several machine learning algorithms (Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine with Gaussian Kernel, Support Vector Machine with Linear Kernel, Naïve Bayes, and Decision Tree) and deep learning algorithms (VGG16, and Resnet101). Moreover, we have built a majority voting-based classifier, which will predict the result based on the majority votes of the top five algorithms (w.r.t f1-score). Our best classifier result was obtained with a majority voting-based classifier (described below) with the resulting f1-score of 0.9755.

## INTRODUCTION
The coronavirus is spreading enormously with multiple variants of the virus emerging very frequently. There are few vaccines available that contain further spread. However, vaccinating most of the people around the world is not going to happen any time soon. Furthermore, the standard clinical test for nCOVID-19 confirmation – reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test for detecting nCOVID-19 is manual and time-consuming. The rapid increase in the number of cases, coupled with the limited availability of test kits and experts in the hospitals demands an AI-powered automatic screening system, that can help expert physicians screen the infected patients requiring immediate isolation and further clinical confirmation.

Our goal is to build an automatic screening system that can classify the given patient as a corona positive or negative. The input to our model is the chest x-ray images, and we have used various models (machine learning and deep learning) to predict the output (0 for normal, 1 for Corona).
